[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to
look at how we can solve more
complex logical problems using nested IFs,
and
we're also going to introduce two other
logical functions called AND, and OR.
Zara has been asked to
recalculate the late charges.
The system has changed,
and we're now going to charge a different
rate depending on the location.
If it's Sydney,
we're going to multiply the amount by
the overdue days by the penalty rate.
But if it's Melbourne, we're just
going to charge the $5 flat rate.
The problem is, we now actually
have three possible outcomes.
If it's not overdue,
we're going to charge zero.
If it is overdue, we're going to then have
to decide if it's Sydney or Melbourne.
The IF on its own can only
handle two possible outcomes.
So the moment you have more outcomes,
you need more IFs.
This is called nesting IFs.
So the way it's going to work is,
the first IF is going to check
if our invoice is overdue.
If it's not, we're going to charge zero.
We then still have two possibilities.
So our second IF, is going to
check if our location is Sydney.
If it is,
we're going to do the calculation.
If it's not,
we're going to do the flat rate.
So let's see this in action.
So we're going to start by clicking
into O5 and typing equals IF and tab.
Now, the first thing we're going
to check is if we're overdue.
So we're going to check if
overdue is equal to nothing.
In other words, it's not overdue.
If this is the case, well, we're going to
charge zero late charge, so nice and easy.
Now, type a comma.
We now have two more possibilities.
So we're going to need another IF.
We're going to type our IF,
and tab to open the brackets.
Our logical test, this time, is going to
check if our location is equal to Sydney.
Then our comma.
If it is, we're going to need to take our
amount, multiply it by our overdue days,
and multiply that by our penalty rate,
then type a comma.
If it's not Sydney,
there's only one more possibility.
It must be Melbourne.
And were charging them the flat rate,
which you may recall we
have a named range for.
Now, we can close our bracket for
our second IF, and
very important,
close your bracket with your first IF.
If you now press Enter,
late charges are corrected.
You can nest up to 64 IFs.
But let's hope, you never need to.
There's one more potential limitation for
the IF.
It can only process a single logical test.
But sometimes,
we need to check multiple things.
So in the next example,
if the invoice is overdue, and
it is more than $500,
Zara needs to take some action.
But here,
there are two things we have to check.
Now, the functions that can help us with
this are the AND and the OR function.
Both are designed to
evaluate logical tests, and
both of them can evaluate up to 255.
The AND is the fussy one.
If all of the logical tests are true,
the AND will return true.
If even one of them are false,
it will return false.
The OR is a little bit more relaxed.
As long as one of the logical test
is true, it will return true.
Now, for our example, we need the AND.
So we're going to click into P5 and
type "=AND", and open our brackets.
The first logical test is going to be,
is our invoice overdue?
And we'll use our overdue days as time.
So I'm going to check if overdue is
greater than zero, then type a comma.
Our second logical test is going to
check if our amount is greater than or
equal to 500.
This will also include amounts
that are equal to 500.
And then we're going to close
our brackets and press Enter.
You'll see we have got a few trues
where both conditions are met, but
most of them are returning false.
If we'd used the OR, we would have
found we got a lot more trues,
because just one of the conditions
would need to be true.
Now, the thing with the AND and the OR
is they only return true or false.
And if that's what you want, that's great.
But that doesn't look amazing.
Zara would actually like to see
the word action if it's true,
and nothing if it's false.
So what we're going to do now
is nest our AND inside an if.
So coming back to P5,
we're going to double click, and
just after the equals,
we're going to slip in IF in there.
The logical test has already
been done by our AND.
So we're just going to type
a comma after that red bracket.
If the AND returns true, well,
we need to take some action.
If it doesn't, we can leave the cell
empty, which is open quotes, close quotes.
Now, close your brackets for
your if, press Enter, and
we can instantly see our actionable items.
So just to recap,
if you have more than two outcomes,
you may need to look at using nested IFs.
On the other hand,
if you need to evaluate logical tests,
you can use the AND, the OR,
or a combination of the two.